No.:              04
Date/time:        16.06.2017 07:45 - 08:40
Place:            Skype
Involved persons: Prof. Dr. Eric Dubuis (ED)
                  Sven Osterwalder (SO)

Meeting minutes 2017-06-16
==========================

General
-------

Prof. Fuhrer is today sadly not able to attend the meeting as planned. Prof.
Fuhrer proposed to hold the meeting nevertheless to which Dr. Dubuis agreed. The
proceedings of the meeting are recorded by Sven Osterwalder and are sent to
Prof. Fuhrer and Dr. Dubuis.


Presentation and discussion of the current state of the work (SO, ED)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

* Overview of the current state of the documentation (SO)

  * The chapter containing the introduction is done. (SO)
  * Chapter about administrative aspects is nearly done, only the risk
    management, as discussed in the last meeting, will be added. (SO)
  * The graphics in the chapter containing fundamentals need to be bigger as
    they are otherwise not readable. This was discussed with Mr. Fuhrer already.
    Otherwise the chapter is done. (SO)
  * The chapter about methodologies is done. (SO)
  * The chapter containing the results is half done. The section about the
    software architecture is done, the second section, about literate
    programming, will only be very short and mostly reference to the already
    introduced methodology as well as a reference to the appendix, which holds
    the actual implementation of the software in form of a literate program.
    What remains is the description of the developed software and its
    components. (SO)

    * This is OK. (ED)

  * Still remaining is the abstract. (SO)
  * For every chapter a review of the previous chapter, the goal of the current
    chapter and the methods for reaching that goals were introduced. (SO)
    * Yes, this is good, I like that. You used some times the
      word~\enquote{last} to mention the previous chapter. This should
      be~\enquote{previous} instead of~\enquote{last}.

Discussion of the current state of work (ED, SO)
------------------------------------------------

* Hand-in of the first draft abstract regarding the book containing the theses
  of Berne University of Applied Sciences. According to an email sent by Ms.
  Jeanbourquin containing the overall planning of the autumn semester 2017 the
  hand-in of the abstract needs to be today, 2017-06-16. In a previous sent mail
  although, containing direct information concerning the book, the deadline is
  the 7th of July 2017. The deadline of today seems only to be a deadline for a
  first draft. (SO)

* The next intended steps are the following: (SO)

  * Finish and upload the abstract, needed for the book. (SO)
  * Finish writing the chapter containing the results: Layers, literate
    programming and the software itself. (SO)
  * Finish the development of the software to reach the defined project goals. (SO)
  * Preparation for the public presentation and the defense of the thesis. (SO)

* The time schedule is still valid and the project is still on schedule. (SO)

* Re-considering of the objectives and limitations. (ED)

  * All concepts of the objectives need to be explained within the thesis. This
    is very important! (ED)
    * Except for real-time and graphical user interface this is currently the
      case. (SO)
    * This is OK, but explain what means real-time in the context of this
      thesis, as this seems to be a central point. Provide maybe evidence, that
      the project reaches its definition of real-time using the described
      algorithms and define maybe what are the limits of the use technology
      concerning real-time (e.g. rendering too complex scenes and getting below
      25 fps therefore). (ED)
    * You have graphical user interface as an objective. What exactly does a
      graphical user interface mean for you or especially for this thesis?
      Graphical user interfaces are a complex subject on their own. (ED)
      * The focus is clearly not on the graphical user interface. It is rather
        providing elements of a toolbox to facilitate certain tasks using Qt's
        user interface. (SO)
      * This was exactly my intention when bringing this point up. Try to call
        the usage of graphical elements as you use them, a toolbox providing
        certain elements ready for usage. So you can prevent on focusing too
        much on the aspect of the graphical user interface. (ED)

  * You may even reduce your set goals --- while maintaining the initially
    handed-in goals of course. (ED)

    * There are additional goals which are optional. Shall I keep or remove
      them? (SO)
    * Are they reachable? (ED)
    * No, at the current state of the project it is very unlikely to reach them.
      (SO)
    * Remove the optional objectives then. (ED)

* What in my opinion is missing, is a part between the methodologies and the
  results. I think there is a gap. (ED)
  * I had the same feeling while creating the new document structure. The
    results of this thesis are a software design and the implementation of that
    design. (SO)
  * In this case there seems to be no gap, but you should rename the results to
    implementation as the implementation seems to be the result. (SO)

* Can you show me the current situation of the developed software in form of a
  literate program, which is in the appendix, as mentioned before? (ED)

  * Presentation of an older version of the developed literate program. (SO)

  * This is generally speaking OK. Try not to loose too much time for the
    implementation any more by going into great detail. Try to find a good
    balance between showing the algorithms and the textual explanation of
    things. Try to limit yourself to only the essential things. (ED)

  * This is quite hard to accomplish due to literate programming. Everything
    needs to be explained from scratch. The algorithms are not introduced as
    such (theoretical), it is more of an practical presentation by combining the
    textual explanation and the code. (SO)

  * I see, maybe the classical representation is due to the usage of literate
    programming not possible. As you introduce the relevant algorithms in the
    main part of the thesis and reference them accordingly when implementing
    them in the literate program, this is OK. (ED)

  * My main focus is currently on finishing the documentation far as possible
    and then to implement the missing features to reach the objectives. I will
    do this using one of the methodologies introduced when talking about risk
    management at the last meeting. This means e.g. programming directly in the
    code fragment file and add only as much as necessary to the literate
    program. (SO)

  * Yes, this is OK, this is kind of what I meant by finding a good balance.
    (ED)

Further steps/proceedings (SO, ED)
----------------------------------

* Defense of the thesis: 15.08.2017, 1500 in Biel

  The official, planned hand-in of the thesis by the student is the 28th of
  July 2017. The latest hand-in of the thesis by the adviser and expert is the
  18th of August 2017. This means the defense of the thesis needs to be
  somewhere between the 28th of July 2017 and the 18th of August 2017. Due to
  holidays of Dr. Dubuis the earliest possible date is the 15th of August 2017,
  15:00 in Biel. This needs to be discussed with Prof. Fuhrer, but it is a first
  proposal.

* Meetings
  Until the hand-in of the thesis no official meetings are planned. Any
  inquiries can be done by email however.

* Write and finish abstract
* Finish results
* Process TODOs
* Continue and finish the development of the software
* Correction of the thesis
* Prepare the defense of the thesis
